I am impulsive and weak. I check twitter and facebook and instagram constantly, looking for another like or comment or upvote because I want the attention. 
I tracked how often I was using these distracting website using Moment for my phone and RescueTime for my laptop. The results shocked me because I was spending more than 30% of my waking life 
on these sites. 

I had enough of it last semester. So I implemented a script on my laptop that blocked all social media sites for most of the day (except 2 30 minute breaks). This did not work, as I found myself hacking the script constantly as to bypass the security. It seemed like no existing technical solution could tame my monkey-like implulsive brain. 


So I decided to built an app to solve the problem for me. I built "The Cave" which is a chrome extension that blocks websites that are distracting to you. 
Some website blocking apps purely block website while in "work mode" or even completely. The Cave takes a different approach. 

When you try to access the distracting website, twitter lets say, the cave blocks the website for 3 minutes. You are greeted by a GIF of patrick star meditating. Why? I'm not sure, I thought it fit well. You are also greeted by the task list of things you have to do. 

The catch is, if you leave this loading page, the timer resets. After the 3 minutes is up, The Cave grants you 3 minutes of access time before blocking the website again. 

Now when I use The Cave, I find myself compulsively checking instagram, seeing that I have to stomach 3 minutes of patrick star meditating, knowing I have other things to do, and I get right back on task. 

The Cave helps for those times when your brain goes "eh, why not check bbc.com or reddit.com to see". Usually when I check a website from such a justification, I find myself trapped on whatever media I am consuming, only escaping 30 minutes later having watched 20 videos of cats laughing. (Your mileage may vary). 


Its in early alpha, so test it out, and let me know if you find bugs or have feedback. 

https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/the-cave/kbjancifikejnikkieichobkjlfhomeb

Thanks, 

Evan
