These are my quick thoughts on the first 5 chapters of Metaphors of Meaning by George Lakoff and Mark Johnson. I really enjoy this book so far, I highly recommend you give it a read. 
These notes are mostly for myself but I hope you gain some insight. 

Metaphors are lenses we view our experiences and objects through. For example, we use our spatial experiences to interpret dichotomies. Good is up, bad is down. Status is up. 

On another hand, we use metaphors such as Time is Money or Argument is War, where we use the structure from war to interpret discourse and scarcity for the continua. 

One drawback to this approach is the loss of information when invoking metaphor. The compression can be lossy - when arguing one can be obsessed about winning the "battle" (and naturally winning in the terms of the metaphor) but missing the other reasons for argumentation: time is money, give up on our time to mutually benefit from discourse. The aspect of discourse involving cooperation is filtered out through the lens of "Argument is War". These are blinders we put on when we interpret the world through lossy metaphors. 

Another way to view this problem is through the functions - viewing the invocation of certain metaphors as the invocation of certain functions between objects in one space to objects of another. Objects in the case of war include retreat, battle, tactics, strategy, destruction, morale, etc. Objects in arguments include the communication of ideas, ceding points, changing minds, prose, style, understanding, cooperation, mental exercise etc. When we view arguments as war we map objects in the war category to objects in the argument category. Changing minds and ceding points have clear pre-images in the war category: Winning / Losing ground, giving up tactical positions, etc. When invoking this function, some of the objects in argument space are mapped to from objects in war space, but others are not. This function is not one-to-one. Nor are all objects in the war space are inversely mapped to from some object in the argument space. Mutual understanding has no obvious war concept that it can be mapped from. Thus these functions are not bijective (satisfying one-to-oneness and ontoness). Non-bijective functions between object classes lose information - viewing either argument or war through the function or inverse of the function causes an agent to miss important aspects of both categories. 

Note even here that using the metaphor of "metaphors as functions" is a meta-metaphor in it of itself. Said metaphor is lossy even respect to metaphor objects mapping to metaphor objects. Its turtles all the way down. 

Consequently, when viewing the invocation of metaphors, it is important to analyze how the non-isomorphic qualities of the functions lead to a loss of information and meaning in interpretation.
